docs/v3/syntax/client/client.mdx, before:

---
title: client
---

A **client** is the mechanism by which an [impl](/v3/syntax/impl) is executed (can be an LLM or otherwise).

## Syntax

```rust
client<CLIENT_TYPE> Name {
    provider ProviderName
    options {
      // ...
    }
}
```

- `CLIENT_TYPE`: What type of AI model will be used. Currently must be `llm`
- `Name`: The name of the client (can be any [a-zA-Z], numbers or `_`). Must start with a letter.

## Properties

| Property       | Type                 | Description                                        | Required |
| -------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `provider`     | name of the provider | The provider to use.                               | Yes      |
| `options`      | key-value pair       | These are passed through directly to the provider. | No       |
| `retry_policy` | name of the policy   | [Learn more](/v3/syntax/client/retry)              | No       |

## Providers

BAML libraries ship with some providers, but you can also write your own. There are two primary types of LLMs: chat and completion. BAML Clients abstract away the differences between these two types of LLMs by putting that logic into the provider.

You can call a chat client with a single completion prompt and it will automatically map it to a chat prompt and similarly you can call a completion client with multiple chat prompts and it will automatically map it to a completion prompt.

### OpenAI/Azure

Provider names:

- `baml-openai-chat`
- `baml-openai-completion`
- `baml-azure-chat`
- `baml-azure-completion`

You must pick the right provider for the type of model you are using. For example, if you are using a GPT-3 model, you must use a `chat` provider, but if you're using the instruct model, you must use a `completion` provider.

You can see all models supported by OpenAI [here](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models).

Accepts any options as defined by [OpenAI/Azure SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-python/blob/9e6e1a284eeb2c20c05a03831e5566a4e9eaba50/src/openai/types/chat/completion_create_params.py#L28)

See [Azure Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/quickstart?tabs=command-line,python&pivots=programming-language-python#create-a-new-python-application) to learn how to get your Azure API key.

```rust
// A client that uses the OpenAI chat API.
client<llm> MyGPT35Client {
  // Since we're using a GPT-3 model, we must use a chat provider.
  provider baml-openai-chat
  options {
    model gpt-3.5-turbo
    // Set the api_key parameter to the OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable
    api_key env.OPENAI_API_KEY
  }
}

// A client that uses the OpenAI chat API.
client<llm> MyAzureClient {
  // I configured the deployment to use a GPT-3 model,
  // so I must use a chat provider.
  provider baml-azure-chat
  options {
        api_key env.AZURE_OPENAI_KEY
        api_base env.AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT
        // This may change in the future
        api_version '2023-05-15'
        api_type azure
        engine REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME
    }
}
```

<Warning>
  BAML uses `openai <= 0.28.1`! We're working on migrating our providers over
  and ensuring you can use the latest version of openai regardless. The benefit
  of BAML is that even if openai's SDK changes, you can still use the same BAML
  code.
</Warning>

### Anthropic

Provider names:

- `baml-anthropic`

Accepts any options as defined by [Anthropic SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-sdk-python/blob/fc90c357176b67cfe3a8152bbbf07df0f12ce27c/src/anthropic/types/completion_create_params.py#L20)

```rust
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider baml-anthropic
  options {
    model claude-2
    max_tokens_to_sample 300
  }
}
```

### Fallback

The provider helps with reseliency by allowing you to specify strategies for re-running failed requests. See [Fallbacks/Redundancy](/v3/syntax/client/redundancy) for more information.

### Creating your own (Advanced)

Creating a provider is requires a bit more deeper understanding. You can see our source code for any of our providers here:

- [OpenAI + Azure Chat](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/openai_chat_provider.py)
- [OpenAI + Azure Completion](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/openai_completion_provider.py)
- [Anthropic](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/anthropic_provider.py)
- [Fallback](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/fallback_provider.py)

You can add your own provider by creating a new file anywhere in your application logic, then setting the provider name in .baml to name you registered it with in your implementation.

<Note>
  We are actively working on how to make custom providers better / easier. If
  you have ideas, please reach out to us on discord!
</Note>

Commit message:

docs: document the round robin changes

docs/v3/syntax/client/client.mdx, after:

---
title: client
---

A **client** is the mechanism by which an [impl](/v3/syntax/impl) is executed (can be an LLM or otherwise).

## Syntax

```rust
client<CLIENT_TYPE> Name {
    provider ProviderName
    options {
      // ...
    }
}
```

- `CLIENT_TYPE`: What type of AI model will be used. Currently must be `llm`
- `Name`: The name of the client (can be any [a-zA-Z], numbers or `_`). Must start with a letter.

## Properties

| Property       | Type                 | Description                                        | Required |
| -------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `provider`     | name of the provider | The provider to use.                               | Yes      |
| `options`      | key-value pair       | These are passed through directly to the provider. | No       |
| `retry_policy` | name of the policy   | [Learn more](/v3/syntax/client/retry)              | No       |

## Providers

BAML libraries ship with the following providers (you can can also write your own!):

- LLM client providers
  - `baml-openai-chat`
  - `baml-openai-completion`
  - `baml-azure-chat`
  - `baml-azure-completion`
- Composite client providers
  - `baml-fallback`
  - `baml-round-robin`

There are two primary types of LLM clients: chat and completion. BAML abstracts
away the differences between these two types of LLMs by putting that logic in
the clients.

You can call a chat client with a single completion prompt and it will
automatically map it to a chat prompt and similarly you can call a completion
client with multiple chat prompts and it will automatically map it to a
completion prompt.

### OpenAI/Azure

Provider names:

- `baml-openai-chat`
- `baml-openai-completion`
- `baml-azure-chat`
- `baml-azure-completion`

You must pick the right provider for the type of model you are using. For example, if you are using a GPT-3 model, you must use a `chat` provider, but if you're using the instruct model, you must use a `completion` provider.

You can see all models supported by OpenAI [here](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models).

Accepts any options as defined by [OpenAI/Azure SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-python/blob/9e6e1a284eeb2c20c05a03831e5566a4e9eaba50/src/openai/types/chat/completion_create_params.py#L28)

See [Azure Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/quickstart?tabs=command-line,python&pivots=programming-language-python#create-a-new-python-application) to learn how to get your Azure API key.

```rust
// A client that uses the OpenAI chat API.
client<llm> MyGPT35Client {
  // Since we're using a GPT-3 model, we must use a chat provider.
  provider baml-openai-chat
  options {
    model gpt-3.5-turbo
    // Set the api_key parameter to the OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable
    api_key env.OPENAI_API_KEY
  }
}

// A client that uses the OpenAI chat API.
client<llm> MyAzureClient {
  // I configured the deployment to use a GPT-3 model,
  // so I must use a chat provider.
  provider baml-azure-chat
  options {
        api_key env.AZURE_OPENAI_KEY
        api_base env.AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT
        // This may change in the future
        api_version '2023-05-15'
        api_type azure
        engine REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME
    }
}
```

<Warning>
  BAML uses `openai <= 0.28.1`! We're working on migrating our providers over
  and ensuring you can use the latest version of openai regardless. The benefit
  of BAML is that even if openai's SDK changes, you can still use the same BAML
  code.
</Warning>

### Anthropic

Provider names:

- `baml-anthropic`

Accepts any options as defined by [Anthropic SDK](https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-sdk-python/blob/fc90c357176b67cfe3a8152bbbf07df0f12ce27c/src/anthropic/types/completion_create_params.py#L20)

```rust
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider baml-anthropic
  options {
    model claude-2
    max_tokens_to_sample 300
  }
}
```

### Fallback

The provider helps with reseliency by allowing you to specify strategies for re-running failed requests. See [Fallbacks/Redundancy](/v3/syntax/client/redundancy) for more information.

### Creating your own (Advanced)

Creating a provider is requires a bit more deeper understanding. You can see our source code for any of our providers here:

- [OpenAI + Azure Chat](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/openai_chat_provider.py)
- [OpenAI + Azure Completion](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/openai_completion_provider.py)
- [Anthropic](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/anthropic_provider.py)
- [Fallback](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/blob/canary/clients/python/baml_core/registrations/providers/fallback_provider.py)

You can add your own provider by creating a new file anywhere in your application logic, then setting the provider name in .baml to name you registered it with in your implementation.

<Note>
  We are actively working on how to make custom providers better / easier. If
  you have ideas, please reach out to us on discord!
</Note>
