docs/docs/get-started/deploying/docker.mdx, before:


When you develop with BAML, the BAML VScode extension generates a `baml_client` directory (on every save) with all the generated code you need to use your AI functions in your application.

We recommend you add `baml_client` to your `.gitignore` file to avoid committing generated code to your repository, and re-generate the client code when you build and deploy your application.

You _could_ commit the generated code if you're starting out to not deal with this, just make sure the VSCode extension version matches your baml package dependency version (e.g. `baml-py` for python and `@boundaryml/baml` for TS) so there are no compatibility issues.

To build your client you can use the following command. See also [Generating Clients](/docs/calling-baml/generate-baml-client):
  
<CodeGroup>

```dockerfile python Dockerfile
RUN baml-cli generate --from path-to-baml_src
```

```dockerfile TypeScript Dockerfile
# Do this early on in the dockerfile script before transpiling to JS
RUN npx baml-cli generate --from path-to-baml_src
```

```dockerfile Ruby Dockerfile
RUN bundle add baml
RUN bundle exec baml-cli generate --from path/to/baml_src
```
</CodeGroup>


### Current limitations
- We do not yet support `alpine` images. BAML will not properly build for those platforms. Let us know if you need to support lighter weight alpine images, and we'll prioritize it.

Commit message:

🌿 introducing fern docs (#779)
This PR contains the full migration to create Boundary's documentation
with Fern.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Gupta <vbv@boundaryml.com>
Co-authored-by: Aaron Villalpando <aaron@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/get-started/deploying/docker.mdx, after:

---
slug: docs/get-started/deploying/docker
---


When you develop with BAML, the BAML VScode extension generates a `baml_client` directory (on every save) with all the generated code you need to use your AI functions in your application.

We recommend you add `baml_client` to your `.gitignore` file to avoid committing generated code to your repository, and re-generate the client code when you build and deploy your application.

You _could_ commit the generated code if you're starting out to not deal with this, just make sure the VSCode extension version matches your baml package dependency version (e.g. `baml-py` for python and `@boundaryml/baml` for TS) so there are no compatibility issues.

To build your client you can use the following command. See also [Generating Clients](../../calling-baml/generate-baml-client.mdx):
  
<CodeBlocks>

```dockerfile python Dockerfile
RUN baml-cli generate --from path-to-baml_src
```

```dockerfile TypeScript Dockerfile
# Do this early on in the dockerfile script before transpiling to JS
RUN npx baml-cli generate --from path-to-baml_src
```

```dockerfile Ruby Dockerfile
RUN bundle add baml
RUN bundle exec baml-cli generate --from path/to/baml_src
```
</CodeBlocks>


### Current limitations
- We do not yet support `alpine` images. BAML will not properly build for those platforms. Let us know if you need to support lighter weight alpine images, and we'll prioritize it.
