docs/docs/syntax/type.mdx, before:

---
title: Supported Types
---

## Primitive Types

### ✅ bool

- **When to use it:** When you need to represent a simple true/false condition.
- **Syntax:** `bool`

### ✅ int

- **When to use it:** When you want numeric values
- **Syntax:** `int`

### ✅ float

- **When to use it:** When dealing with numerical values that require precision (like measurements or monetary values).
- **Syntax:** `float`

### ✅ string

- **Syntax:** `string`

### ✅ char

- **When to use it:** When you need to represent a single letter, digit, or other symbols.
- **Syntax:** `char`

### ✅ null

- **Syntax:** `null`

### ✅  Images

You can use an image like this:

```rust
function DescribeImage(myImg: image) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the image in four words:
    {{ myImg }}
  "#
}
```

### ⚠️ bytes

- Not yet supported. Use a `string[]` or `int[]` instead.

### ⚠️ any/json

- Not supported.
  <Warning>
    We don't want to encourage its use as it defeats the purpose of having a
    type system. if you really need it, for now use `string` and call
    `json.parse` yourself. Also, message us on discord so we can understand your
    use case and consider supporting it.
  </Warning>

### Dates/Times

#### ⚠️ datetime

- Not yet supported. Use a `string` or `int` (milliseconds since epoch) instead.

#### ⚠️ datetime interval

- Not yet supported. Use a `string` or `int` (milliseconds since epoch) instead.

### ⚠️ Unit Values (currency, temperature, etc)

Many times you may want to represent a number with a unit. For example, a
temperature of 32 degrees Fahrenheit or cost of $100.00.

- Not yet supported. We recommend using a number (`int` or `float`) and having
  the unit be part of the variable name. For example, `temperature_fahrenheit`
  and `cost_usd` (see [@alias](/docs/syntax/class#alias)).




## Composite/Structured Types

### ✅ enum

**See also:** [Enum](/docs/syntax/enum)

A user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants.
- **When to use it:** Use it when you need a model to choose from a known set of values, like in classification problems
- **Syntax:**

```rust
enum Name {
  Value1
  Value2
}
```

- **Example:**

```rust
enum Color {
  Red
  Green
  Blue
}
```

### ✅ class

**See also:** [Class](/docs/syntax/class)

- **What it is:** User-defined complex data structures.
- **When to use it:** When you need an LLM to call another function (e.g. OpenAI's function calling), you can model the function's parameters as a class. You can also get models to return complex structured data by using a class.
- **Syntax:**

```rust
class ClassName {
  ...
}
```

- **Example:**

```rust
class Car {
  model string
  year int
}
```

### ✅ Optional (?)

- **What it is:** A type that represents a value that might or might not be present.
- **When to use it:** When a variable might not have a value and you want to explicitly handle its absence.
- **Syntax:** `<type>?`
- **Example:** `int?` or `(MyClass | int)?`

### ✅ Union (|)

- **What it is:** A type that can hold one of several specified types.
- **When to use it:** When a variable can legitimately be of more than one type. This can be helpful with function calling, where you want to return different types of data depending on which function should be called.
- **Syntax:** `<type>|<type>`
- **Example:** `int | string` or `(int | string) | MyClass` or `string | MyClass | int[]`
  <Warning>
    Order is important. `int | string` is not the same as `string | int`.
    <br />
    For example, if you have a `"1"` string, it will be parsed as an `int` if
    you use `int | string`, but as a `string` if you use `string | int`.
  </Warning>

### ✅ List/Array ([])

- **What it is:** A collection of elements of the same type.
- **When to use it:** When you need to store a list of items of the same type.
- **Syntax:** `<type>[]`
- **Example:** `string[]` or `(int | string)[]` or `int[][]`

<Tip>
  <ul>
    <li>Array types can be nested to create multi-dimensional arrays</li>
    <li>An array type cannot be optional</li>
  </ul>
</Tip>

### ❌ Dictionary

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

### ❌ Set

- Not yet supported. Use a `List` instead.

### ❌ Tuple

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

## Examples and Equivalents

Here are some examples and what their equivalents are in different languages.

### Example 1

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
int?|string[]|MyClass
````

```python Python Equivalent
Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
(number | null) | string[] | MyClass
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 2

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
string[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
List[str]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
string[]
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 3

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
(int|float)[]
```
```python Python Equivalent
List[Union[int, float]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
number[]
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 4

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
(int? | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
Optional[List[Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
((number | null) | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

audio rendering works in playground

docs/docs/syntax/type.mdx, after:

---
title: Supported Types
---

## Primitive Types

### ✅ bool

- **When to use it:** When you need to represent a simple true/false condition.
- **Syntax:** `bool`

### ✅ int

- **When to use it:** When you want numeric values
- **Syntax:** `int`

### ✅ float

- **When to use it:** When dealing with numerical values that require precision (like measurements or monetary values).
- **Syntax:** `float`

### ✅ string

- **Syntax:** `string`

### ✅ char

- **When to use it:** When you need to represent a single letter, digit, or other symbols.
- **Syntax:** `char`

### ✅ null

- **Syntax:** `null`

### ✅ Images

You can use an image like this:

```rust
function DescribeImage(myImg: image) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the image in four words:
    {{ myImg }}
  "#
}
```


### ✅ Audio
We support audio for existing models that support it, such as Gemini Pro and Flash. 
You can use audio like this:

```rust
function DescribeAudio(myAudio: audio) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the tone of this song in four words:
    {{ myAudio }}
  "#
}
```


### ⚠️ bytes

- Not yet supported. Use a `string[]` or `int[]` instead.

### ⚠️ any/json

- Not supported.
  <Warning>
    We don't want to encourage its use as it defeats the purpose of having a
    type system. if you really need it, for now use `string` and call
    `json.parse` yourself. Also, message us on discord so we can understand your
    use case and consider supporting it.
  </Warning>

### Dates/Times

#### ⚠️ datetime

- Not yet supported. Use a `string` or `int` (milliseconds since epoch) instead.

#### ⚠️ datetime interval

- Not yet supported. Use a `string` or `int` (milliseconds since epoch) instead.

### ⚠️ Unit Values (currency, temperature, etc)

Many times you may want to represent a number with a unit. For example, a
temperature of 32 degrees Fahrenheit or cost of $100.00.

- Not yet supported. We recommend using a number (`int` or `float`) and having
  the unit be part of the variable name. For example, `temperature_fahrenheit`
  and `cost_usd` (see [@alias](/docs/syntax/class#alias)).




## Composite/Structured Types

### ✅ enum

**See also:** [Enum](/docs/syntax/enum)

A user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants.
- **When to use it:** Use it when you need a model to choose from a known set of values, like in classification problems
- **Syntax:**

```rust
enum Name {
  Value1
  Value2
}
```

- **Example:**

```rust
enum Color {
  Red
  Green
  Blue
}
```

### ✅ class

**See also:** [Class](/docs/syntax/class)

- **What it is:** User-defined complex data structures.
- **When to use it:** When you need an LLM to call another function (e.g. OpenAI's function calling), you can model the function's parameters as a class. You can also get models to return complex structured data by using a class.
- **Syntax:**

```rust
class ClassName {
  ...
}
```

- **Example:**

```rust
class Car {
  model string
  year int
}
```

### ✅ Optional (?)

- **What it is:** A type that represents a value that might or might not be present.
- **When to use it:** When a variable might not have a value and you want to explicitly handle its absence.
- **Syntax:** `<type>?`
- **Example:** `int?` or `(MyClass | int)?`

### ✅ Union (|)

- **What it is:** A type that can hold one of several specified types.
- **When to use it:** When a variable can legitimately be of more than one type. This can be helpful with function calling, where you want to return different types of data depending on which function should be called.
- **Syntax:** `<type>|<type>`
- **Example:** `int | string` or `(int | string) | MyClass` or `string | MyClass | int[]`
  <Warning>
    Order is important. `int | string` is not the same as `string | int`.
    <br />
    For example, if you have a `"1"` string, it will be parsed as an `int` if
    you use `int | string`, but as a `string` if you use `string | int`.
  </Warning>

### ✅ List/Array ([])

- **What it is:** A collection of elements of the same type.
- **When to use it:** When you need to store a list of items of the same type.
- **Syntax:** `<type>[]`
- **Example:** `string[]` or `(int | string)[]` or `int[][]`

<Tip>
  <ul>
    <li>Array types can be nested to create multi-dimensional arrays</li>
    <li>An array type cannot be optional</li>
  </ul>
</Tip>

### ❌ Dictionary

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

### ❌ Set

- Not yet supported. Use a `List` instead.

### ❌ Tuple

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

## Examples and Equivalents

Here are some examples and what their equivalents are in different languages.

### Example 1

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
int?|string[]|MyClass
````

```python Python Equivalent
Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
(number | null) | string[] | MyClass
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 2

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
string[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
List[str]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
string[]
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 3

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
(int|float)[]
```
```python Python Equivalent
List[Union[int, float]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
number[]
```

</CodeGroup>

### Example 4

<CodeGroup>
```baml Baml
(int? | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
Optional[List[Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
((number | null) | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

</CodeGroup>
