docs/docs/snippets/syntax/strings.mdx, before:

---
title: strings
slug: docs/snippets/syntax/strings
---


BAML treats strings as first-class citizens, to support more struggle-free prompt engineering.

## Quoted Strings

This is a valid **inline string**, which is surrounded by double quotes.

```rust
"Hello World"
```

## Unquoted Strings

BAML also supports simple **unquoted in-line** strings. The string below is valid! These are useful for simple strings such as configuration options.

```rust
Hello World
```

Unquoted strings **may not** have any of the following since they are reserved characters (note this may change in the future):

- Quotes "double" or 'single'
- At-signs @
- Curlies {}
- hashtags #
- Parentheses ()
- Brackets []
- commas ,
- newlines

When in doubt, use a quoted string or a block string, but the VSCode extension will warn you if there is a parsing issue.

## Block Strings

If a string is on multiple lines, it must be surrounded by #" and "#. This is called a **block string**.

```rust
#"
Hello
World
"#
```

Block strings are automatically dedented and stripped of the first and last newline. This means that the following will render the same thing as above

```rust
#"
    Hello
    World
"#
```

### Code Strings

In case you need to add some code documentation or whatnot in a baml file, you can type this in:
```rust
python#"
    print("Hello World")
    def foo():
        return 1
"#
```
these are not functional code blocks -- they are only used for documentation purposes.

Commit message:

Correctly escape quoted strings (#905)
Prior quoted string in BAML "\n" == python "\\n".

We've fixed this. To get the prior behaviors, people should use block string #"\n"#

docs/docs/snippets/syntax/strings.mdx, after:

---
title: strings
slug: docs/snippets/syntax/strings
---


BAML treats strings as first-class citizens, to support more struggle-free prompt engineering.

## Quoted Strings

These is a valid **inline string**, which is surrounded by double quotes. They behave like regular strings in most programming languages, and can be escaped with a backslash.


```rust
"Hello World"

"\n"
```

## Unquoted Strings

BAML also supports simple **unquoted in-line** strings. The string below is valid! These are useful for simple strings such as configuration options.

```rust
Hello World
```

Unquoted strings **may not** have any of the following since they are reserved characters (note this may change in the future):

- Quotes "double" or 'single'
- At-signs @
- Curlies {}
- hashtags #
- Parentheses ()
- Brackets []
- commas ,
- newlines

When in doubt, use a quoted string or a block string, but the VSCode extension will warn you if there is a parsing issue.

## Block Strings

If a string is on multiple lines, it must be surrounded by #" and "#. This is called a **block string**.

```rust
#"
Hello
World
"#
```

Block strings are automatically dedented and stripped of the first and last newline. This means that the following will render the same thing as above

```rust
#"
    Hello
    World
"#
```

### Code Strings

In case you need to add some code documentation or whatnot in a baml file, you can type this in:
```rust
python#"
    print("Hello World")
    def foo():
        return 1
"#
```
these are not functional code blocks -- they are only used for documentation purposes.
