docs/docs/snippets/clients/round-robin.mdx, before:

---
title: round-robin
---

The `round_robin` provider allows you to distribute requests across multiple clients in a round-robin fashion. After each call, the next client in the list will be used.

```rust BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}
```

## Options

<ParamField path="strategy" type="List[string]" required>
  The list of client names to try in order. Cannot be empty.
</ParamField>

<ParamField  path="start" type="int">
  The index of the client to start with.

  **Default is `random(0, len(strategy))`**

  In the [BAML Playground](/docs/get-started/quickstart/editors-vscode.mdx), Default is `0`.
</ParamField>

## retry_policy

When using a retry_policy with a round-robin client, it will rotate the strategy list after each retry.

```rust BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  retry_policy MyRetryPolicy
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}
```

## Nesting multiple round-robin clients

You can nest multiple round-robin clients inside of each other. The round-robin as you would expect.

```rust BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}

client<llm> MegaClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      MyClient
      ClientD
      ClientE
    ]
  }
}

// Calling MegaClient will call:
// MyClient(ClientA)
// ClientD
// ClientE
// MyClient(ClientB)
// etc.
```

Commit message:

🌿 introducing fern docs (#779)
This PR contains the full migration to create Boundary's documentation
with Fern.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Gupta <vbv@boundaryml.com>
Co-authored-by: Aaron Villalpando <aaron@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/snippets/clients/round-robin.mdx, after:

---
title: round-robin
slug: docs/snippets/clients/round-robin
---


The `round_robin` provider allows you to distribute requests across multiple clients in a round-robin fashion. After each call, the next client in the list will be used.

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}
```

## Options

<ParamField path="strategy" type="List[string]" required>
  The list of client names to try in order. Cannot be empty.
</ParamField>

<ParamField  path="start" type="int">
  The index of the client to start with.

  **Default is `random(0, len(strategy))`**

  In the [BAML Playground](/docs/get-started/quickstart/editors-vscode), Default is `0`.
</ParamField>

## retry_policy

When using a retry_policy with a round-robin client, it will rotate the strategy list after each retry.

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  retry_policy MyRetryPolicy
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}
```

## Nesting multiple round-robin clients

You can nest multiple round-robin clients inside of each other. The round-robin as you would expect.

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      ClientA
      ClientB
      ClientC
    ]
  }
}

client<llm> MegaClient {
  provider round-robin
  options {
    strategy [
      MyClient
      ClientD
      ClientE
    ]
  }
}

// Calling MegaClient will call:
// MyClient(ClientA)
// ClientD
// ClientE
// MyClient(ClientB)
// etc.
```
