docs/docs/get-started/what-is-baml.mdx, before:

---
title: What is BAML?
slug: docs/get-started/what-is-baml
---


**BAML is a domain-specific language to write and test LLM functions.**

In BAML, prompts are treated like functions. An LLM function is a prompt template with some defined input variables, and a specific output type like a class, enum, union, optional string, etc.


With BAML you can write and test a complex LLM function in 1/10 of the time it takes to setup a python LLM testing environment.

## Try it out in the playground -- [PromptFiddle.com](https://promptfiddle.com)

Share your creations and ask questions in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/BTNBeXGuaS).


## Demo video
<iframe src="https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/5fxpquglde?seo=false&videoFoam=false" title="BAML Demo Video" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" msallowfullscreen width="640" height="352"></iframe>
<script src="https://fast.wistia.net/assets/external/E-v1.js" async></script>

## Features

### Language features
- **Python / Typescript / Ruby support**: Plug-and-play BAML with other languages
- **JSON correction**: BAML fixes bad JSON returned by LLMs (e.g. unquoted keys, newlines, comments, extra quotes, and more)
- **Wide model support**: Ollama, Openai, Anthropic, Gemini. Tested on small models like Llama2
- **Streaming**: Stream structured partial outputs
- **Resilience and fallback features**: Add retries, redundancy, to your LLM calls

### Developer Experience
- **Stability**: BAML works the same in EVERY language we support. No more "it works in python but not in Typescript"
- **Type safety**: BAML is a typed language, so you get type errors before you run your LLM, and autocomplete in your IDE
- **Realtime Prompt Previews**: See the full prompt always, even if it has loops and conditionals
- **Testing support**: Test functions in the playground with 1 click

### Production features
- **Observability Platform**: Use Boundary Studio to visualize your functions and replay production requests with 1 click

## Companies using BAML

- [Zenfetch](https://zenfetch.com/) - ChatGPT for your bookmarks
- [Vetrec](https://www.vetrec.io/) - AI-powered Clinical Notes for Veterinarians
- [MagnaPlay](https://www.magnaplay.com/) - Production-quality machine translation for games
- [Aer Compliance](https://www.aercompliance.com/) - AI-powered compliance tasks
- [Haven](https://www.usehaven.ai/) - Automate Tenant communications with AI
- [Muckrock](https://www.muckrock.com/) - FOIA request tracking and filing
- and more! [Let us know](https://calendly.com/boundaryml/meeting-with-founders) if you want to be showcased or want to work with us 1-1 to solve your usecase.

## Starter projects

- [BAML + NextJS 14 + Streaming](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml-examples/tree/main/nextjs-starter)
- [BAML + FastAPI + Streaming](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml-examples/tree/main/python-fastapi-starter)

## First steps
We recommend checking the examples in [PromptFiddle.com](https://promptfiddle.com). Once you're ready to start, [install the toolchain](/docs/get-started/quickstart/python) and read the [guides](/docs/calling-baml/calling-functions).

Commit message:

extractapi2 (#996)
- **add extract api**
- **Docs**
- **add docs**

<!-- ELLIPSIS_HIDDEN -->

----

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Introduces a new extraction API with documentation and examples,
updates OpenAPI spec, and reorganizes documentation structure.
> 
>   - **New Extraction API**:
> - Added `POST /extract` endpoint in `openapi.yaml` for data extraction
from files using prompts.
> - Supports multiple file uploads and returns extracted data in JSON
format.
>   - **Documentation**:
> - Added `examples.mdx` with code examples for Python, TypeScript,
Ruby, and Go.
> - Updated `docs.yml` to include new `boundary-extraction-api` tab and
navigation structure.
> - Added `summary.mdx` and `extraction-api.mdx` for API overview and
usage.
>   - **Tests**:
> - Minor changes in `test_functions.py` to accommodate new API
features.
>   - **Miscellaneous**:
>     - Updated `turbo.json` to include new build dependencies.
> 
> <sup>This description was created by </sup>[<img alt="Ellipsis"
src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ellipsis-blue?color=175173">](https://www.ellipsis.dev?ref=BoundaryML%2Fbaml&utm_source=github&utm_medium=referral)<sup>
for c177430bf555f7de1fd2d76875d580e47e960487. It will automatically
update as commits are pushed.</sup>

<!-- ELLIPSIS_HIDDEN -->

docs/docs/get-started/what-is-baml.mdx, after:

---
title: What is BAML?
slug: docs/get-started/what-is-baml
---


**BAML is a domain-specific language to write and test LLM functions.**

In BAML, prompts are treated like functions. An LLM function is a prompt template with some defined input variables, and a specific output type like a class, enum, union, optional string, etc.


With BAML you can write and test a complex LLM function in 1/10 of the time it takes to setup a python LLM testing environment.

## Try it out in the playground -- [PromptFiddle.com](https://promptfiddle.com)

Share your creations and ask questions in our [Discord](https://discord.gg/BTNBeXGuaS).


## Demo video
<iframe src="https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/5fxpquglde?seo=false&videoFoam=false" title="BAML Demo Video" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" msallowfullscreen width="640" height="352"></iframe>
<script src="https://fast.wistia.net/assets/external/E-v1.js" async></script>

## Features

### Language features
- **Plugs into any language**: BAML functions can be called from any language.
- **JSON correction**: BAML fixes bad JSON returned by LLMs (e.g. unquoted keys, newlines, comments, extra quotes, and more)
- **Wide model support**: Ollama, Openai, Anthropic, Gemini. Tested on small models like Llama2
- **Streaming**: Stream structured partial outputs
- **Resilience and fallback features**: Add retries, redundancy, to your LLM calls

### Developer Experience
- **Stability**: BAML works the same in EVERY language we support. No more "it works in python but not in Typescript"
- **Type safety**: BAML is a typed language, so you get type errors before you run your LLM, and autocomplete in your IDE
- **Realtime Prompt Previews**: See the full prompt always, even if it has loops and conditionals
- **Testing support**: Test functions in the playground with 1 click

### Production features
- **Observability Platform**: Use Boundary Studio to visualize your functions and replay production requests with 1 click

## BAML in the wild

- [Zenfetch](https://zenfetch.com/) - ChatGPT for your bookmarks
- [Vetrec](https://www.vetrec.io/) - AI-powered Clinical Notes for Veterinarians
- [MagnaPlay](https://www.magnaplay.com/) - Production-quality machine translation for games
- [Aer Compliance](https://www.aercompliance.com/) - AI-powered compliance tasks
- [Haven](https://www.usehaven.ai/) - Automate Tenant communications with AI
- [Muckrock](https://www.muckrock.com/) - FOIA request tracking and filing
- and more! [Let us know](https://calendly.com/boundaryml/meeting-with-founders) if you want to be showcased or want to work with us 1-1 to solve your usecase.

## Starter projects

- [BAML + NextJS 14 + Streaming](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml-examples/tree/main/nextjs-starter)
- [BAML + FastAPI + Streaming](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml-examples/tree/main/python-fastapi-starter)

## First steps
We recommend checking the examples in [PromptFiddle.com](https://promptfiddle.com). Once you're ready to start, [install the toolchain](/docs/get-started/quickstart/python) and read the [guides](/docs/calling-baml/calling-functions).
