docs/docs/get-started/debugging/vscode-playground.mdx, before:

## General debugging strategy
- Check [Discord (#announcements channel)](https://discord.gg/BTNBeXGuaS) / [Github](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/issues) for any known issues
- Close the playground and reopen it
- Try reloading the entire window by pressing `Ctrl + Shift + P` or `Cmd + Shift + P` and typing `Developer: Reload Window`
- Ensure your VSCode Extension for BAML is up-to-date (It should should it its up-to-date in the Extensions tab in VSCode)
<img src="/images/docs_latest/vscode/extension-status.png" />

- If nothing works, please file an issue on [Github](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/issues), ideally with a screenshot of the error and the steps to reproduce it.

## Common Issues
### No code lens in BAML files

This can happen in two cases:
1. You have syntax error in some `.baml` file. You can check the error in the `Problems` tab in VSCode or running the `generate` command in the terminal (See [Generate](/docs/calling-baml/generate-baml-client))

2. BAML extension is broken. Please try the tools above!

### BAML extension is not working

### Tests hanging

We've seen sparse repros of this, but closing the playground and reopening it should fix it.

### Tests failing to run

You can debug the actual network request being made by BAML by opening developer tools:

<img src="/images/docs_latest/vscode/dev-tools.png" />

Commit message:

🌿 introducing fern docs (#779)
This PR contains the full migration to create Boundary's documentation
with Fern.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Gupta <vbv@boundaryml.com>
Co-authored-by: Aaron Villalpando <aaron@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/get-started/debugging/vscode-playground.mdx, after:

---
slug: docs/get-started/debugging/vscode-playground
---

## General debugging strategy
- Check [Discord (#announcements channel)](https://discord.gg/BTNBeXGuaS) / [Github](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/issues) for any known issues
- Close the playground and reopen it
- Try reloading the entire window by pressing `Ctrl + Shift + P` or `Cmd + Shift + P` and typing `Developer: Reload Window`
- Ensure your VSCode Extension for BAML is up-to-date (It should should it its up-to-date in the Extensions tab in VSCode)
<img src="../../../assets/images/docs_latest/vscode/extension-status.png" />

- If nothing works, please file an issue on [Github](https://github.com/BoundaryML/baml/issues), ideally with a screenshot of the error and the steps to reproduce it.

## Common Issues
### No code lens in BAML files

This can happen in two cases:
1. You have syntax error in some `.baml` file. You can check the error in the `Problems` tab in VSCode or running the `generate` command in the terminal (See [Generate](../../calling-baml/generate-baml-client.mdx))

2. BAML extension is broken. Please try the tools above!

### BAML extension is not working

### Tests hanging

We've seen sparse repros of this, but closing the playground and reopening it should fix it.

### Tests failing to run

You can debug the actual network request being made by BAML by opening developer tools:

<img src="../../../assets/images/docs_latest/vscode/dev-tools.png" />
