docs/v2/mdx/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart"
---


## Installation
We will install 3 things:
1. BAML compiler
1. BAML Python Library
1. BAML VSCode Extension

### Install Baml Compiler

You'll need to install the baml compiler -- `baml` -- to your path.

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
brew install gloohq/baml/baml
```

```bash Linux (debian)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BamlHQ/homebrew-baml/main/install-baml.sh | bash
```

```bash Windows (via scoop)
# You can install scoop at https://scoop.sh/
scoop bucket add baml-bucket https://github.com/bamlhq/homebrew-baml
scoop install baml
```

</CodeGroup>
You should be able to run `baml --version` and see the version number.

#### Update instructions

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
baml update
```

```bash Linux (debian)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BamlHQ/homebrew-baml/main/install-baml.sh | bash
```

```bash Windows (via scoop)
scoop update
scoop update baml
```

</CodeGroup>

### Install Baml Extension

Use our [VSCode Exension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Gloo.baml) for syntax highlighting, auto building `.baml` files, and inline syntax errors.

<Info>It also works with [Cursor](https://cursor.so/)!</Info>

<Warning>
  If you don't use the VSCode extension, you'll need to run: `baml build` inside the baml_src directory every time you edit a `.baml` file.
</Warning>

### Add the BAML Python Client

```
pip install baml
```
or if using poetry:
```
poetry add baml
```
Typescript support is still in the works! Contact us at contact@boundaryml.com

### Setup BAML in your project

We recommend running `baml init` in your project root using the BAML CLI and inspecting the generated sample files. They will contain helpful information about how to use BAML. You can also read the [language tour](./baml-by-example) for more details.

```bash
baml init
```


#### Manual initialization
Create a `baml_src` directory. This is where your `.baml` files will live. The BAML extension won't generate your python functions from your BAML files unless they live in this directory.

Add a `main.baml` file with a `generator` block. This is where you'll define how the code is generated:

```rust main.baml
generator Default {
  language python
}
```

You're all set! See the [language tour](./baml-by-example) for more details on how to declare your LLM functions.

# Setting up the Gloo Dashboard
The dashboard can help you analyze requests and trace your functions.

### Create a Gloo Project in the dashboard

Visit [app.trygloo.com](https://app.trygloo.com) and create a new project.

#### Setup environment variables

On the dashboard, click on the project you created and go to "Keys". Note down the project ID and create a new secret to use as the APP SECRET below.

Use these to add to your environment variables, otherwise requests will not be sent to the dashboard.

```bash
BOUNDARY_PROJECT_ID=proj_123...
BOUNDARY_SECRET=gloo:your-key-from-dashboard
```

Commit message:

rename gloo to boundary in docs

docs/v2/mdx/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart"
---


## Installation
We will install 3 things:
1. BAML compiler
1. BAML Python Library
1. BAML VSCode Extension

### Install Baml Compiler

You'll need to install the baml compiler -- `baml` -- to your path.

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
brew install gloohq/baml/baml
```

```bash Linux (debian)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BamlHQ/homebrew-baml/main/install-baml.sh | bash
```

```bash Windows (via scoop)
# You can install scoop at https://scoop.sh/
scoop bucket add baml-bucket https://github.com/bamlhq/homebrew-baml
scoop install baml
```

</CodeGroup>
You should be able to run `baml --version` and see the version number.

#### Update instructions

<CodeGroup>

```bash Mac
baml update
```

```bash Linux (debian)
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BamlHQ/homebrew-baml/main/install-baml.sh | bash
```

```bash Windows (via scoop)
scoop update
scoop update baml
```

</CodeGroup>

### Install Baml Extension

Use our [VSCode Exension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Gloo.baml) for syntax highlighting, auto building `.baml` files, and inline syntax errors.

<Info>It also works with [Cursor](https://cursor.so/)!</Info>

<Warning>
  If you don't use the VSCode extension, you'll need to run: `baml build` inside the baml_src directory every time you edit a `.baml` file.
</Warning>

### Add the BAML Python Client

```
pip install baml
```
or if using poetry:
```
poetry add baml
```
Typescript support is still in the works! Contact us at contact@boundaryml.com

### Setup BAML in your project

We recommend running `baml init` in your project root using the BAML CLI and inspecting the generated sample files. They will contain helpful information about how to use BAML. You can also read the [language tour](./baml-by-example) for more details.

```bash
baml init
```


#### Manual initialization
Create a `baml_src` directory. This is where your `.baml` files will live. The BAML extension won't generate your python functions from your BAML files unless they live in this directory.

Add a `main.baml` file with a `generator` block. This is where you'll define how the code is generated:

```rust main.baml
generator Default {
  language python
}
```

You're all set! See the [language tour](./baml-by-example) for more details on how to declare your LLM functions.

# Setting up the Boundary Dashboard
The dashboard can help you analyze requests and trace your functions.

### Create a Boundary Project in the dashboard


Visit [app.trygloo.com](https://app.trygloo.com) and create a new project.
Note: Boundary was formerly named Gloo

#### Setup environment variables

On the dashboard, click on the project you created and go to "Keys". Note down the project ID and create a new secret to use as the APP SECRET below.

Use these to add to your environment variables, otherwise requests will not be sent to the dashboard.

```bash
BOUNDARY_PROJECT_ID=proj_123...
BOUNDARY_SECRET=gloo:your-key-from-dashboard
```
