docs/docs/calling-baml/exceptions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Exceptions"
---

When BAML raises an exception, it will be an instance of a subclass of `BamlError`. This allows you to catch all BAML-specific exceptions with a single `except` block.

## Import path
<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from baml_py.errors import BamlError, BamlInvalidArgumentError, BamlClientError, BamlClientHttpError, BamlValidationError
```


```typescript TypeScript
// Instead of classes, TypeScript raises a string that is prefixed with:
// "BamlError:"
// Subclasses are sequentially appended to the string.
// For example, BamlInvalidArgumentError is returned as:
// "BamlError: BamlInvalidArgumentError:"
// Or, BamlClientHttpError is returned as:
// "BamlError: BamlClientError: BamlClientHttpError:"
```

```ruby Ruby
Not available yet
```  
</CodeGroup>


## BamlError

Base class for all BAML exceptions.  

<ResponseField
  name="message"
  type="string"
>
  A human-readable error message.
</ResponseField>

### BamlInvalidArgumentError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when one or multiple arguments to a function are invalid.

### BamlClientError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when a client fails to return a valid response.

<Warning>
In the case of aggregate clients like `fallback` or those with `retry_policy`, only the last client's error is raised.  
</Warning>

#### BamlClientHttpError

Subclass of `BamlClientError`.

Raised when the HTTP request made by a client fails with a non-200 status code.

<ResponseField
  name="status_code"
  type="int"
>
  The status code of the response.

Common status codes are:

- 1: Other
- 2: Other
- 400: Bad Request
- 401: Unauthorized
- 403: Forbidden
- 404: Not Found
- 429: Too Many Requests
- 500: Internal Server Error
</ResponseField>

### BamlValidationError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when BAML fails to parse a string from the LLM into the specified object.

<ResponseField
  name="raw_llm_response"
  type="string"
>
  The raw text from the LLM that failed to parse into the expected return type of a function.
</ResponseField>

Commit message:

docs!: require Ruby users to go through OpenAPI, instead of through the gem (#956)
PSA to Ruby users: if you currently rely on the `baml` gem, please reach
out to us either in the Discord or on GitHub so we can migrate you to
the OpenAPI-generated Ruby client.

Over the next few weeks, we plan to provide white-glove support to
migrate all Ruby users from the `baml` gem to the OpenAPI-generated
client and move the `baml` gem into maintenance mode. This will mean
that:

- we will remove `baml`-gem-specific documentation from
https://docs.boundaryml.com/
- we will only publish security fixes for the `baml` gem
- we will ask that you have a plan to migrate to the OpenAPI-generated
Ruby client, before providing any support for

## Why are we doing this?

Bluntly speaking: we don’t think we can provide users of the `baml` gem
with a good experience. It’s in a pretty sorry state today:

- it doesn't work on Windows
- it doesn't work out of the box on macOS (some issue with `darwin` vs
`darwin23`?)
- it still doesn't support tracing
- it's incompatible with async (the underlying FFI libraries do not make
this easy, and we don’t have the engineering resources to do this well)

We're also not aware of anyone _using_ the `baml` gem today, we suspect
in large part because of how buggy it is.

Due to the combination of all of these issues, we will be dropping the
`baml` gem in favor of the OpenAPI-generated Ruby client.

docs/docs/calling-baml/exceptions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Exceptions"
---

When BAML raises an exception, it will be an instance of a subclass of `BamlError`. This allows you to catch all BAML-specific exceptions with a single `except` block.

## Import path
<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from baml_py.errors import BamlError, BamlInvalidArgumentError, BamlClientError, BamlClientHttpError, BamlValidationError
```


```typescript TypeScript
// Instead of classes, TypeScript raises a string that is prefixed with:
// "BamlError:"
// Subclasses are sequentially appended to the string.
// For example, BamlInvalidArgumentError is returned as:
// "BamlError: BamlInvalidArgumentError:"
// Or, BamlClientHttpError is returned as:
// "BamlError: BamlClientError: BamlClientHttpError:"
```

```text OpenAPI
We do not generate error types in OpenAPI.
```  
</CodeGroup>


## BamlError

Base class for all BAML exceptions.  

<ResponseField
  name="message"
  type="string"
>
  A human-readable error message.
</ResponseField>

### BamlInvalidArgumentError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when one or multiple arguments to a function are invalid.

When using BAML-over-HTTP a.k.a. OpenAPI, this is `400 Bad Request`.

### BamlClientError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when a client fails to return a valid response.

<Warning>
In the case of aggregate clients like `fallback` or those with `retry_policy`, only the last client's error is raised.  
</Warning>

When using BAML-over-HTTP a.k.a. OpenAPI, this is `502 Bad Gateway`.

#### BamlClientHttpError

Subclass of `BamlClientError`.

Raised when BAML successfully makes an HTTP request to an LLM provider, but the provider returns a non-200 status code.

<ResponseField
  name="status_code"
  type="int"
>
  The status code of the response.

Common status codes are:

- 1: Other
- 2: Other
- 400: Bad Request
- 401: Unauthorized
- 403: Forbidden
- 404: Not Found
- 429: Too Many Requests
- 500: Internal Server Error
</ResponseField>

### BamlValidationError

Subclass of `BamlError`.

Raised when BAML fails to parse a string from the LLM into the specified object.

<ResponseField
  name="raw_llm_response"
  type="string"
>
  The raw text from the LLM that failed to parse into the expected return type of a function.
</ResponseField>

When using BAML-over-HTTP a.k.a. OpenAPI, this is `500 Internal Server Error` (we expect to use a more specific status code here soon).
