docs/docs/calling-baml/multi-modal.mdx, before:

---
slug: docs/calling-baml/multi-modal
---


## Multi-modal input

### Images 
Calling a BAML function with an `image` input argument type (see [image types](../snippets/supported-types.mdx))
<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Image
from baml_client import b

async def test_image_input():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
      img=Image.from_url(
          "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png"
      )
  )

  # Base64 image
  image_b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_base64("image/png", image_b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Image } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png'),
  )

  // Base64
  const image_b64 = "iVB0R..."
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromBase64('image/png', image_b64),
  )
  
```

```ruby Ruby (beta)
we're working on it!
```

</CodeBlocks>
 
### Audio
Calling functions that have `audio` types. See [audio types](../snippets/supported-types.mdx)

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Audio
from baml_client import b

async def run():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
      img=Audio.from_url(
          "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png"
      )
  )

  # Base64
  b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    img=Audio.from_base64("image/png", b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Audio } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.mp4'),
  )

  // Base64
  const audio_base64 = ".."
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromBase64('image/png', audio_base64),
  )
  
```

```ruby Ruby (beta)
we're working on it!
```
</CodeBlocks>

Commit message:

Minor improvements across docs (#807)
- vscode playground
- missing comma in lists snippet
- what is Image.from_url and Image.from_base64 doing
- baml clients not using baml syntax highlighter
- add vertex-ai to llm client overview
- add link to vertex docs at bottom
- rename vertex Authentication Instructions to Authorization like aws
- add hugging face to docs
- retry_policy should go in provider strategies
- links to other pages should be named the same as the other page
- capitalization in jinja page
- delete exchanging refresh tokens
- multi modal typo
- vllm needs user as default role
- unrolled openai compatible models
- added gpt-4o-mini
- few other minor changes

docs/docs/calling-baml/multi-modal.mdx, after:

---
slug: docs/calling-baml/multi-modal
---


## Multi-modal input

### Images 
Calling a BAML function with an `image` input argument type (see [image types](../snippets/supported-types.mdx)).

The `from_url` and `from_base64` methods create an `Image` object based on input type.
<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Image
from baml_client import b

async def test_image_input():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
      img=Image.from_url(
          "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png"
      )
  )

  # Base64 image
  image_b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_base64("image/png", image_b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Image } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png'),
  )

  // Base64
  const image_b64 = "iVB0R..."
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromBase64('image/png', image_b64),
  )
  
```

```ruby Ruby (beta)
we're working on it!
```

</CodeBlocks>
 
### Audio
Calling functions that have `audio` types. See [audio types](../snippets/supported-types.mdx)

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Audio
from baml_client import b

async def run():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
      img=Audio.from_url(
          "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png"
      )
  )

  # Base64
  b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    img=Audio.from_base64("image/png", b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Audio } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.mp4'),
  )

  // Base64
  const audio_base64 = ".."
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromBase64('image/png', audio_base64),
  )
  
```

```ruby Ruby (beta)
we're working on it!
```
</CodeBlocks>
