docs/docs/calling-baml/set-env-vars.mdx, before:

---
title: Set Environment Variables
slug: docs/calling-baml/set-env-vars
---



The generated BAML client will capture all environment variables when you import it,
and will not be able to see any environment variables you load after importing
the BAML client.

Any of the following strategies are compatible with BAML:

  - set environment variables in your `Dockerfile`
  - set environment variables in your `next.config.js`
  - set environment variables in your Kubernetes manifest
  - load environment variables from secrets-store.csi.k8s.io
  - load environment variables from a secrets provider such as [Infisical](https://infisical.com/) / [Doppler](https://www.doppler.com/)
  - dotenv (`.env` file) cli (e.g. `dotenv -e .env python myscript.py`)
  - using account credentials for ephemeral token generation (e.g. Vertex AI Auth Tokens)

<Tip>If BAML doesn't work for your use case, please [contact us]!</Tip>


## Loading env variables in your program

If you do anything to load environment variables in-process - e.g. using a
`.env` file - make sure to do it before importing the BAML client.


<Tip>
If you run into issues with environment variables not being loaded, try using the `dotenv-cli` option instead. This will set the environment variables for the entire process in your terminal.<br />
See: Node [dotenv-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-cli) or Python [python-dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/dotenv-cli/).
</Tip> 


<CodeBlocks>

```python Python
import dotenv
dotenv.load_dotenv()

# Wait to import the BAML client until after loading environment variables
from baml_client import b
```

```typescript TypeScript
import dotenv from 'dotenv'
dotenv.config()

// Wait to import the BAML client until after loading environment variables
import { b } from 'baml-client'
```

```ruby Ruby (beta)
require 'dotenv/load'

# Wait to import the BAML client until after loading environment variables
require 'baml_client'
```


</CodeBlocks>


## Environment Variables in BAML

Environment variables are primarily used in clients to propagate authorization
credentials, such as API keys, like so:

```baml

client<llm> GPT4o {
  provider baml-openai-chat
  options {
    model gpt-4o
    api_key env.OPENAI_API_KEY
  }
}
```

We do not currently support any other mechanisms for providing authorization
credentials, including but not limited to:

  - fetching credentials from a secret storage service, such as AWS Secrets
    Manager or HashiCorp Vault

Please [contact us] if you need support for these use cases.

[contact us]: /contact

Commit message:

remove a bunch of ruby stuff

docs/docs/calling-baml/set-env-vars.mdx, after:

---
title: Set Environment Variables
slug: docs/calling-baml/set-env-vars
---



The generated BAML client will capture all environment variables when you import it,
and will not be able to see any environment variables you load after importing
the BAML client.

Any of the following strategies are compatible with BAML:

  - set environment variables in your `Dockerfile`
  - set environment variables in your `next.config.js`
  - set environment variables in your Kubernetes manifest
  - load environment variables from secrets-store.csi.k8s.io
  - load environment variables from a secrets provider such as [Infisical](https://infisical.com/) / [Doppler](https://www.doppler.com/)
  - dotenv (`.env` file) cli (e.g. `dotenv -e .env python myscript.py`)
  - using account credentials for ephemeral token generation (e.g. Vertex AI Auth Tokens)

<Tip>If BAML doesn't work for your use case, please [contact us]!</Tip>


## Loading env variables in your program

If you do anything to load environment variables in-process - e.g. using a
`.env` file - make sure to do it before importing the BAML client.


<Tip>
If you run into issues with environment variables not being loaded, try using the `dotenv-cli` option instead. This will set the environment variables for the entire process in your terminal.<br />
See: Node [dotenv-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-cli) or Python [python-dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/dotenv-cli/).
</Tip> 


<CodeBlocks>

```python Python
import dotenv
dotenv.load_dotenv()

# Wait to import the BAML client until after loading environment variables
from baml_client import b
```

```typescript TypeScript
import dotenv from 'dotenv'
dotenv.config()

// Wait to import the BAML client until after loading environment variables
import { b } from 'baml-client'
```

```text OpenAPI
Make sure to set the environment variables wherever you run `baml-cli dev` or `baml-cli serve`.

See the [deployment instructions](/docs/get-started/deploying/openapi) to learn more.
```

</CodeBlocks>


## Environment Variables in BAML

Environment variables are primarily used in clients to propagate authorization
credentials, such as API keys, like so:

```baml
client<llm> GPT4o {
  provider baml-openai-chat
  options {
    model gpt-4o
    api_key env.OPENAI_API_KEY
  }
}
```

We do not currently support any other mechanisms for providing authorization
credentials, including but not limited to:

  - fetching credentials from a secret storage service, such as AWS Secrets
    Manager or HashiCorp Vault

Please [contact us] if you need support for these use cases.

[contact us]: /contact
