docs/docs/snippets/clients/providers/aws-bedrock.mdx, before:

---
title: aws-bedrock
subtitle: AWS Bedrock provider for BAML
slug: docs/snippets/clients/providers/aws-bedrock
---


The `aws-bedrock` provider supports all text-output models available via the [`Converse` API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference.html).

Example:

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider aws-bedrock
  options {
    api_key env.MY_OPENAI_KEY
    model "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    temperature 0.1
  }
}
```

## Authorization

We use the AWS SDK under the hood, which will respect [all authentication mechanisms supported by the SDK](https://docs.rs/aws-config/latest/aws_config/index.html), including but not limited to:

  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` as set in your environment variables
  - loading the specified `AWS_PROFILE` from `~/.aws/config`
  - built-in authn for services running in EC2, ECS, Lambda, etc.

## Forwarded options

<ParamField
   path="messages"
   type="DO NOT USE"
>
  BAML will auto construct this field for you from the prompt
</ParamField>

<ParamField
  path="model_id"
  type="string"
>
  The model to use.

| Model           | Description                    |
| --------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0`  | Fastest + Cheapest    |
| `anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240307-v1:0` | Smartest              |
| `meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0`            |                       |
| `meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0`           |                       |
| `mistral.mistral-7b-instruct-v0:2`        |                       |
| `mistral.mixtral-8x7b-instruct-v0:1`      |                       |

Run `aws bedrock list-foundation-models | jq '.modelSummaries.[].modelId` to get a list of available foundation models; you can also use any custom models you've deployed.

Note that to use any of these models you'll need to [request model access].

[request model access]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-access.html

</ParamField>

<ParamField path="inference_configuration" type="object">
  Additional inference configuration to send with the request; see [AWS Bedrock documentation](https://docs.rs/aws-sdk-bedrockruntime/latest/aws_sdk_bedrockruntime/types/struct.InferenceConfiguration.html).

Example:

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider aws-bedrock
  options {
    inference_configuration {
      max_tokens 1000
      temperature 1.0
      top_p 0.8
      stop_sequence ["_EOF"]
    }
  }
}
```

</ParamField>

Commit message:

Add support for arbritrary metadata (e.g. cache_policy for anthropic)  (#893)
Add ability for people to support caching or any future content metadata
that someone may wish to add.

Most LLM apis have converged on:
```
{
  role: string
  content: {
   ... // multiple variants
  }[]
}
```

We now allow for people to inject arbitrary metadata into the properties
of content (or appropriately named field for any llm api all.

What is not yet supported:
* indexing and adding metadata to subinterfaces of content (i.e. setting
content.image_type.detail)
* adding metadata as a sibling to role, content

The playground and raw_curl correctly display this so if a provider
doesn't support a speicfic metadat, we do support it.

Complete e2e example:
```rust
client<llm> Foo {
  provider openai
  options {
    allowed_role_metadata: ["foo", "bar"]
  }
}

client<llm> FooWithout {
  provider openai
  options {
  }
}
template_string Foo() #"
  {{ _.role('user', foo={"type": "ephemeral"}, bar="1", cat=True) }}
  This will be have foo and bar, but not cat metadata. But only for Foo, not FooWithout.
  {{ _.role('user') }}
  This will have none of the role metadata for Foo or FooWithout.
"#
```

Metadata included:
<img width="446" alt="Screenshot 2024-08-23 at 7 41 40 AM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e26b1e2d-0377-42af-8629-8fcdff0db3cf">

Metadata excluded:
<img width="459" alt="Screenshot 2024-08-23 at 7 42 15 AM"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1dc8fcf3-9a17-4e8d-8a00-29d9bfee31e0">


Potentially breaking changes:
* We now merge sequentially matching roles together into the same chunk.
```
[{
  "role": "user",
  "chunk": [A, B]
},
{
  "role": "user",
  "chunk": [C, D]
}]
```

is now converted to
```
[{
  "role": "user",
  "chunk": [A, B, C, D]
}]
```

docs/docs/snippets/clients/providers/aws-bedrock.mdx, after:

---
title: aws-bedrock
subtitle: AWS Bedrock provider for BAML
slug: docs/snippets/clients/providers/aws-bedrock
---


The `aws-bedrock` provider supports all text-output models available via the [`Converse` API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/conversation-inference.html).

Example:

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider aws-bedrock
  options {
    api_key env.MY_OPENAI_KEY
    model "gpt-3.5-turbo"
    temperature 0.1
  }
}
```

## Authorization

We use the AWS SDK under the hood, which will respect [all authentication mechanisms supported by the SDK](https://docs.rs/aws-config/latest/aws_config/index.html), including but not limited to:

  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` as set in your environment variables
  - loading the specified `AWS_PROFILE` from `~/.aws/config`
  - built-in authn for services running in EC2, ECS, Lambda, etc.

## Non-forwarded options

<ParamField
  path="default_role"
  type="string"
>
  The default role for any prompts that don't specify a role. **Default: `system`**

  We don't have any checks for this field, you can pass any string you wish.
</ParamField>

<Markdown src="../../../../snippets/allowed-role-metadata-basic.mdx" />

## Forwarded options

<ParamField
   path="messages"
   type="DO NOT USE"
>
  BAML will auto construct this field for you from the prompt
</ParamField>

<ParamField
  path="model_id"
  type="string"
>
  The model to use.

| Model           | Description                    |
| --------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0`  | Fastest + Cheapest    |
| `anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240307-v1:0` | Smartest              |
| `meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0`            |                       |
| `meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0`           |                       |
| `mistral.mistral-7b-instruct-v0:2`        |                       |
| `mistral.mixtral-8x7b-instruct-v0:1`      |                       |

Run `aws bedrock list-foundation-models | jq '.modelSummaries.[].modelId` to get a list of available foundation models; you can also use any custom models you've deployed.

Note that to use any of these models you'll need to [request model access].

[request model access]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/model-access.html

</ParamField>

<ParamField path="inference_configuration" type="object">
  Additional inference configuration to send with the request; see [AWS Bedrock documentation](https://docs.rs/aws-sdk-bedrockruntime/latest/aws_sdk_bedrockruntime/types/struct.InferenceConfiguration.html).

Example:

```baml BAML
client<llm> MyClient {
  provider aws-bedrock
  options {
    inference_configuration {
      max_tokens 1000
      temperature 1.0
      top_p 0.8
      stop_sequence ["_EOF"]
    }
  }
}
```

</ParamField>
