docs/docs/snippets/prompt-syntax/what-is-jinja.mdx, before:

---
title: What is Jinja / Cookbook
---

BAML Prompt strings are essentially [Jinja](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/) templates, which offer the ability to express logic and data manipulation within strings. Jinja is a very popular and mature templating language amongst python developers, so github copilot or GPT4 can already help you write most of the logic you want.

## Jinja Cookbook

When in doubt -- use the BAML VSCode Playground preview. It will show you the fully rendered prompt, even when it has complex logic.

### Basic Syntax

- `{% ... %}`: Use for executing statements such as for-loops or conditionals.
- `{{ ... }}`: Use for outputting expressions or variables.
- `{# ... #}`: Use for comments within the template, which will not be rendered.

### Loops / Iterating Over Lists

Here's how you can iterate over a list of items, accessing each item's attributes:

```jinja2
function MyFunc(messages: Message[]) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% for message in messages %}
      {{ message.user_name }}: {{ message.content }}
    {% endfor %}
  "#
}
```

### Conditional Statements

Use conditional statements to control the flow and output of your templates based on conditions:

```jinja2
function MyFunc(user: User) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% if user.is_active %}
      Welcome back, {{ user.name }}!
    {% else %}
      Please activate your account.
    {% endif %}
  "#
}
```

### Setting Variables

You can define and use variables within your templates to simplify expressions or manage data:

```jinja2
function MyFunc(items: Item[]) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% set total_price = 0 %}
    {% for item in items %}
      {% set total_price = total_price + item.price %}
    {% endfor %}
    Total price: {{ total_price }}
  "#
}
```

### Including other Templates

To promote reusability, you can include other templates within a template. See [template strings](/docs/snippets/template-string):

```rust
template_string PrintUserInfo(arg1: string, arg2: User) #"
  {{ arg1 }}
  The user's name is: {{ arg2.name }}
"#

function MyFunc(arg1: string, user: User) -> string {
  prompt #"
    Here is the user info:
    {{ PrintUserInfo(arg1, user) }}
  "#
}
```

### Built-in filters
See [jinja docs](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/#list-of-builtin-filters)

Commit message:

🌿 introducing fern docs (#779)
This PR contains the full migration to create Boundary's documentation
with Fern.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Gupta <vbv@boundaryml.com>
Co-authored-by: Aaron Villalpando <aaron@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/snippets/prompt-syntax/what-is-jinja.mdx, after:

---
title: What is Jinja / Cookbook
slug: docs/snippets/prompt-syntax/what-is-jinja
---


BAML Prompt strings are essentially [Jinja](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/) templates, which offer the ability to express logic and data manipulation within strings. Jinja is a very popular and mature templating language amongst python developers, so github copilot or GPT4 can already help you write most of the logic you want.

## Jinja Cookbook

When in doubt -- use the BAML VSCode Playground preview. It will show you the fully rendered prompt, even when it has complex logic.

### Basic Syntax

- `{% ... %}`: Use for executing statements such as for-loops or conditionals.
- `{{ ... }}`: Use for outputting expressions or variables.
- `{# ... #}`: Use for comments within the template, which will not be rendered.

### Loops / Iterating Over Lists

Here's how you can iterate over a list of items, accessing each item's attributes:

```jinja
function MyFunc(messages: Message[]) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% for message in messages %}
      {{ message.user_name }}: {{ message.content }}
    {% endfor %}
  "#
}
```

### Conditional Statements

Use conditional statements to control the flow and output of your templates based on conditions:

```jinja
function MyFunc(user: User) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% if user.is_active %}
      Welcome back, {{ user.name }}!
    {% else %}
      Please activate your account.
    {% endif %}
  "#
}
```

### Setting Variables

You can define and use variables within your templates to simplify expressions or manage data:

```jinja
function MyFunc(items: Item[]) -> string {
  prompt #"
    {% set total_price = 0 %}
    {% for item in items %}
      {% set total_price = total_price + item.price %}
    {% endfor %}
    Total price: {{ total_price }}
  "#
}
```

### Including other Templates

To promote reusability, you can include other templates within a template. See [template strings](../template-string.mdx):

```baml
template_string PrintUserInfo(arg1: string, arg2: User) #"
  {{ arg1 }}
  The user's name is: {{ arg2.name }}
"#

function MyFunc(arg1: string, user: User) -> string {
  prompt #"
    Here is the user info:
    {{ PrintUserInfo(arg1, user) }}
  "#
}
```

### Built-in filters
See [jinja docs](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.1.x/templates/#list-of-builtin-filters)
