docs/docs/snippets/functions/classification.mdx, before:

You can write functions to classify elements using [Enums](/docs/snippets/enum).

Here is such an example:

```rust BAML
enum Category {
    Refund
    CancelOrder @description("some description")
    TechnicalSupport @alias("technical-help") // or alias the name
    AccountIssue
    Question
}

function ClassifyMessage(input: string) -> Category {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {# 
      This automatically injects good instructions 
      for classification since BAML knows
      Category is an enum.
    #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    {{ _.role('user') }}
    {{ input }}

    {{ _.role('assistant') }}
    Response:
  "#
}
```
If you use BAML Playground, you can see what we inject into the prompt, with full transparency.

The neat part about BAML is that you don't need to parse the enums out of the answer yourself. It _will just work_. BAML's fuzzy parsing detects when the LLM prints something like:
```text
Based on the information provided, I think the answer is Refund
```
and will give you the actual `Category.Refund` when you call the function. We will add more knobs so you can make this parsing more or less strict. 

## Usage
<CodeGroup>
```python python
from baml_client import b
from baml_client.types import Category

...
  result = await b.ClassifyMessage("I want to cancel my order")
  assert result == Category.CancelOrder
```

```typescript typescript
import b from 'baml_client'
import { Category } from 'baml_client/types'

...
  const result = await b.ClassifyMessage("I want to cancel my order")
  assert(result === Category.Cancel)

```ruby ruby
require_relative "baml_client/client"

$b = Baml.Client

def main
    category = $b.ClassifyMessage(input: "I want to cancel my order")
    puts category == Baml::Types::Category::CancelOrder
end

if __FILE__ == $0
  main
end
```
</CodeGroup>

## Handling Dynamic Categories (e.g. user-provided, or from a database)
To handle dynamic categories you can use [dynamic enums](/docs/calling-baml/dynamic-types) to build your enum at runtime.

Commit message:

🌿 introducing fern docs (#779)
This PR contains the full migration to create Boundary's documentation
with Fern.

---------

Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Gupta <vbv@boundaryml.com>
Co-authored-by: Aaron Villalpando <aaron@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/snippets/functions/classification.mdx, after:

---
slug: docs/snippets/functions/classification
---

You can write functions to classify elements using [Enums](../enum.mdx).

Here is such an example:

```baml BAML
enum Category {
    Refund
    CancelOrder @description("some description")
    TechnicalSupport @alias("technical-help") // or alias the name
    AccountIssue
    Question
}

function ClassifyMessage(input: string) -> Category {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {# 
      This automatically injects good instructions 
      for classification since BAML knows
      Category is an enum.
    #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    {{ _.role('user') }}
    {{ input }}

    {{ _.role('assistant') }}
    Response:
  "#
}
```
If you use BAML Playground, you can see what we inject into the prompt, with full transparency.

The neat part about BAML is that you don't need to parse the enums out of the answer yourself. It _will just work_. BAML's fuzzy parsing detects when the LLM prints something like:
```text
Based on the information provided, I think the answer is Refund
```
and will give you the actual `Category.Refund` when you call the function. We will add more knobs so you can make this parsing more or less strict. 

## Usage
<CodeBlocks>
```python python
from baml_client import b
from baml_client.types import Category

...
  result = await b.ClassifyMessage("I want to cancel my order")
  assert result == Category.CancelOrder
```

```typescript typescript
import b from 'baml_client'
import { Category } from 'baml_client/types'

...
  const result = await b.ClassifyMessage("I want to cancel my order")
  assert(result === Category.Cancel)

```ruby ruby
require_relative "baml_client/client"

$b = Baml.Client

def main
    category = $b.ClassifyMessage(input: "I want to cancel my order")
    puts category == Baml::Types::Category::CancelOrder
end

if __FILE__ == $0
  main
end
```
</CodeBlocks>

## Handling Dynamic Categories (e.g. user-provided, or from a database)
To handle dynamic categories you can use [dynamic enums](../../calling-baml/dynamic-types.mdx) to build your enum at runtime.
