docs/docs/snippets/functions/function-calling.mdx, before:

---
title: Function Calling / Tools
---
"Function calling" is a technique for getting an LLM to choose a function to call for you.

The way it works is:
1. You define a task with certain function(s)
2. Ask the LLM to **choose which function to call**
3. **Get the function parameters from the LLM** for the appropriate function it choose
4. **Call the functions** in your code with those parameters

In BAML, you can get represent a `tool` or a `function` you want to call as a BAML `class`, and make the function output be that class definition.

```rust BAML
class WeatherAPI {
  city string @description("the user's city")
  timeOfDay string @description("As an ISO8601 timestamp")
}

function UseTool(user_message: string) -> WeatherAPI {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    Extract the info from this message
    ---
    {{ user_message }}
    ---

    {# special macro to print the output schema. #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    JSON:
  "#
}
```

## Choosing multiple Tools

To choose ONE tool out of many, you can use a union:
```rust BAML
function UseTool(user_message: string) -> WeatherAPI | MyOtherAPI {
  .... // same thing
}
```

<Tip>If you use [VSCode Playground](/docs/get-started/quickstart/editors-vscode), you can see what we inject into the prompt, with full transparency.</Tip>

## Choosing N Tools
To choose many tools, you can use a union of a list:
```rust BAML
function UseTool(user_message: string) -> (WeatherAPI | MyOtherAPI)[] {
  .... // same thing
}
```

## Function-calling APIs vs Prompting
Injecting your function schemas into the prompt, as BAML does, outperforms function-calling across all benchmarks for major providers (see [Berkeley's Function-calling Leaderboard](https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/leaderboard.html), where "Prompt" outperforms "FC").

Keep in mind that "JSON mode" is nearly the same thing as "prompting", but it enforces the LLM response is ONLY a JSON blob.
BAML does not use JSON mode since it allows developers to use better prompting techniques like chain-of-thought, to allow the LLM to express its reasoning before printing out the actual schema. BAML's parser can find the json schema(s) out of free-form text for you.

BAML may support native function-calling APIs in the future (please let us know more about your use-case so we can prioritize accordingly)

Commit message:

Migrating docs from mintlify to fern

docs/docs/snippets/functions/function-calling.mdx, after:

---
title: Function Calling / Tools
hide-toc: true
hide-nav-links: true
layout: reference
slug: docs/snippets/functions/function-calling
---

"Function calling" is a technique for getting an LLM to choose a function to call for you.

The way it works is:
1. You define a task with certain function(s)
2. Ask the LLM to **choose which function to call**
3. **Get the function parameters from the LLM** for the appropriate function it choose
4. **Call the functions** in your code with those parameters

In BAML, you can get represent a `tool` or a `function` you want to call as a BAML `class`, and make the function output be that class definition.

```rust BAML
class WeatherAPI {
  city string @description("the user's city")
  timeOfDay string @description("As an ISO8601 timestamp")
}

function UseTool(user_message: string) -> WeatherAPI {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    Extract the info from this message
    ---
    {{ user_message }}
    ---

    {# special macro to print the output schema. #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    JSON:
  "#
}
```

## Choosing multiple Tools

To choose ONE tool out of many, you can use a union:
```rust BAML
function UseTool(user_message: string) -> WeatherAPI | MyOtherAPI {
  .... // same thing
}
```

<Tip>If you use [VSCode Playground](../../get-started/quickstart/editors-vscode.mdx), you can see what we inject into the prompt, with full transparency.</Tip>

## Choosing N Tools
To choose many tools, you can use a union of a list:
```rust BAML
function UseTool(user_message: string) -> (WeatherAPI | MyOtherAPI)[] {
  .... // same thing
}
```

## Function-calling APIs vs Prompting
Injecting your function schemas into the prompt, as BAML does, outperforms function-calling across all benchmarks for major providers (see [Berkeley's Function-calling Leaderboard](https://gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/leaderboard.html), where "Prompt" outperforms "FC").

Keep in mind that "JSON mode" is nearly the same thing as "prompting", but it enforces the LLM response is ONLY a JSON blob.
BAML does not use JSON mode since it allows developers to use better prompting techniques like chain-of-thought, to allow the LLM to express its reasoning before printing out the actual schema. BAML's parser can find the json schema(s) out of free-form text for you.

BAML may support native function-calling APIs in the future (please let us know more about your use-case so we can prioritize accordingly)
