docs/docs/snippets/functions/overview.mdx, before:

A **function** is the contract between the application and the AI model. It defines the desired **input** and a **guaranteed output**.

Here is a simple BAML function to extract a resume. Note the input is a chunk of resume_text, and the output is an actual resume class. Read [prompt syntax](/docs/snippets/prompt-syntax/what-is-jinja) to learn more about the prompt and what Jinja templating is.

```rust BAML
class Resume {
  name string
  education Education[] @description("Extract in the same order listed")
  skills string[] @description("Only include programming languages")
}

class Education {
  school string
  degree string
  year int
}

function ExtractResume(resume_text: string) -> Resume {
  client GPT4Turbo
  // The prompt uses Jinja syntax. Change the models or this text and watch the prompt preview change!
  prompt #"
    Parse the following resume and return a structured representation of the data in the schema below.

    Resume:
    ---
    {{ resume_text }}
    ---

    {# special macro to print the output instructions. #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    JSON:
  "#
}
```

A function signature directly translates into the same function in the language of your choice, and BAML's fuzzy parser will handle fixing any common json mistakes LLMs make. Here's how you call it:

<CodeGroup>
```python python
from baml_client import b
from baml_client.types import Resume

async def main():
resume_text = """Jason Doe\nPython, Rust\nUniversity of California, Berkeley, B.S.\nin Computer Science, 2020\nAlso an expert in Tableau, SQL, and C++\n"""

    # this function comes from the autogenerated "baml_client".
    # It calls the LLM you specified and handles the parsing.
    resume = await b.ExtractResume(resume_text)

    # Fully type-checked and validated!
    assert isinstance(resume, Resume)

```

```typescript typescript
import b from 'baml_client'

async function main() {
  const resume_text = `Jason Doe\nPython, Rust\nUniversity of California, Berkeley, B.S.\nin Computer Science, 2020\nAlso an expert in Tableau, SQL, and C++`

  // this function comes from the autogenerated "baml_client".
  // It calls the LLM you specified and handles the parsing.
  const resume = await b.ExtractResume(resume_text)

  // Fully type-checked and validated!
  resume.name === 'Jason Doe'
}
```

```ruby ruby

require_relative "baml_client/client"
b = Baml.Client

# Note this is not async
res = b.TestFnNamedArgsSingleClass(
    myArg: Baml::Types::Resume.new(
        key: "key",
        key_two: true,
        key_three: 52,
    )
)
```

</CodeGroup>

## Complex input types

If you have a complex input type you can import them from `baml_client` and use them when calling your function. Imagine we injected `class Resume` into a different baml function called AnalyzeResume. Here's what the call looks like:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from baml_client.types import Resume
from baml_client import b
...
  await b.AnalyzeResume(
    Resume(name="Mark", education=[...]))

````

```typescript typescript
import { Resume, b } from "baml_client"

...
  await b.AnalyzeResume({
    name: "Mark",
    education: [...]
  })
````

```ruby Ruby
require_relative "baml_client/client"
b = Baml.Client
...
res = b.AnalyzeResume(
  myArg: Baml::Types::Resume.new(
      name: "key",
      education: [...]
  )
)
```

</CodeGroup>

See more at [Calling functions](/docs/calling-baml/calling-functions)

Checkout [PromptFiddle](https://promptfiddle.com) to see various interactive BAML function examples.

Commit message:

Migrating docs from mintlify to fern

docs/docs/snippets/functions/overview.mdx, after:

---
hide-toc: true
hide-nav-links: true
layout: reference
slug: docs/snippets/functions/overview
---

A **function** is the contract between the application and the AI model. It defines the desired **input** and a **guaranteed output**.

Here is a simple BAML function to extract a resume. Note the input is a chunk of resume_text, and the output is an actual resume class. Read [prompt syntax](../prompt-syntax/what-is-jinja.mdx) to learn more about the prompt and what Jinja templating is.

```rust BAML
class Resume {
  name string
  education Education[] @description("Extract in the same order listed")
  skills string[] @description("Only include programming languages")
}

class Education {
  school string
  degree string
  year int
}

function ExtractResume(resume_text: string) -> Resume {
  client GPT4Turbo
  // The prompt uses Jinja syntax. Change the models or this text and watch the prompt preview change!
  prompt #"
    Parse the following resume and return a structured representation of the data in the schema below.

    Resume:
    ---
    {{ resume_text }}
    ---

    {# special macro to print the output instructions. #}
    {{ ctx.output_format }}

    JSON:
  "#
}
```

A function signature directly translates into the same function in the language of your choice, and BAML's fuzzy parser will handle fixing any common json mistakes LLMs make. Here's how you call it:

<CodeGroup>
```python python
from baml_client import b
from baml_client.types import Resume

async def main():
resume_text = """Jason Doe\nPython, Rust\nUniversity of California, Berkeley, B.S.\nin Computer Science, 2020\nAlso an expert in Tableau, SQL, and C++\n"""

    # this function comes from the autogenerated "baml_client".
    # It calls the LLM you specified and handles the parsing.
    resume = await b.ExtractResume(resume_text)

    # Fully type-checked and validated!
    assert isinstance(resume, Resume)

```

```typescript typescript
import b from 'baml_client'

async function main() {
  const resume_text = `Jason Doe\nPython, Rust\nUniversity of California, Berkeley, B.S.\nin Computer Science, 2020\nAlso an expert in Tableau, SQL, and C++`

  // this function comes from the autogenerated "baml_client".
  // It calls the LLM you specified and handles the parsing.
  const resume = await b.ExtractResume(resume_text)

  // Fully type-checked and validated!
  resume.name === 'Jason Doe'
}
```

```ruby ruby

require_relative "baml_client/client"
b = Baml.Client

# Note this is not async
res = b.TestFnNamedArgsSingleClass(
    myArg: Baml::Types::Resume.new(
        key: "key",
        key_two: true,
        key_three: 52,
    )
)
```

</CodeGroup>

## Complex input types

If you have a complex input type you can import them from `baml_client` and use them when calling your function. Imagine we injected `class Resume` into a different baml function called AnalyzeResume. Here's what the call looks like:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from baml_client.types import Resume
from baml_client import b
...
  await b.AnalyzeResume(
    Resume(name="Mark", education=[...]))

````

```typescript typescript
import { Resume, b } from "baml_client"

...
  await b.AnalyzeResume({
    name: "Mark",
    education: [...]
  })
````

```ruby Ruby
require_relative "baml_client/client"
b = Baml.Client
...
res = b.AnalyzeResume(
  myArg: Baml::Types::Resume.new(
      name: "key",
      education: [...]
  )
)
```

</CodeGroup>

See more at [Calling functions](../../calling-baml/calling-functions.mdx)

Checkout [PromptFiddle](https://promptfiddle.com) to see various interactive BAML function examples.
