docs/docs/snippets/supported-types.mdx, before:

---
title: Supported Types
slug: docs/snippets/supported-types
---


Here's a list of all the types you can extract from LLMs with BAML:

## Primitive types
* `bool`
* `int`
* `float`
* `string`
* `null`

## Multimodal Types
See [calling a function with multimodal types](/docs/snippets/calling-baml/multi-modal)
and [testing image inputs](/docs/snippets/test-cases#images)

### `image`

You can use an image like this for models that support them:

```rust
function DescribeImage(myImg: image) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the image in four words:
    {{ myImg }}
  "#
}
```

You cannot name a variable `image` at the moment as it is a reserved keyword.

Calling a function with an image type:

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Image
from baml_client import b

async def test_image_input():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_url("https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png")
  )

  # Base64 image
  image_b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_base64("image/png", image_b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Image } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png'),
  )

  // Base64
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromBase64('image/png', image_b64),
  )
```

</CodeBlocks>

### `audio`

Example
```rust
function DescribeSound(myAudio: audio) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the audio in four words:
    {{ myAudio }}
  "#
}
```
Calling functions that have `audio` types.

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Audio
from baml_client import b

async def run():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
      img=Audio.from_url(
          "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png"
      )
  )

  # Base64
  b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    img=Audio.from_base64("image/png", b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Audio } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.mp4'),
  )

  // Base64
  const audio_base64 = ".."
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromBase64('image/png', audio_base64),
  )
  
```

</CodeBlocks>

## Composite/Structured Types

### enum

**See also:** [Enum](/docs/syntax/enum)

A user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants.
Use it when you need a model to choose from a known set of values, like in classification problems

```baml
enum Name {
  Value1
  Value2 @description("My optional description annotation")
}
```

### class

**See also:** [Class](/docs/syntax/class)

Classes are for user-defined complex data structures.

Use when you need an LLM to call another function (e.g. OpenAI's function calling), you can model the function's parameters as a class. You can also get models to return complex structured data by using a class.

**Example:**

Note that properties have no `:`
```baml
class Car {
  model string
  year int @description("Year of manufacture")
}
```

### Optional (?)

A type that represents a value that might or might not be present.

Useful when a variable might not have a value and you want to explicitly handle its absence.

**Syntax:** `Type?`

**Example:** `int?` or `(MyClass | int)?`

### Union (|)

A type that can hold one of several specified types.

This can be helpful with **function calling**, where you want to return different types of data depending on which function should be called.

**Syntax:** `Type1 | Type2`

**Example:** `int | string` or `(int | string) | MyClass` or `string | MyClass | int[]`

<Warning>
  Order is important. `int | string` is not the same as `string | int`.

  For example, if you have a `"1"` string, it will be parsed as an `int` if
  you use `int | string`, but as a `string` if you use `string | int`.
</Warning>

### List/Array ([])

A collection of elements of the same type.

**Syntax:** `Type[]`

**Example:** `string[]` or `(int | string)[]` or `int[][]`

<Tip>
  * Array types can be nested to create multi-dimensional arrays
  * An array type cannot be optional
</Tip>

### Map

A mapping of strings to elements of another type.

**Syntax**: `map<string, ValueType>`

**Example**: `map<string, string>`

{/* <Info>
  For TS users: `map<string, ValueType>` will generate a 
  `Record<string, ValueType>` type annotation, but using any other type for the
  key will generate a `Map`, e.g. `map<int, string>` in BAML will generate a
  `Map<number, string>` type annotation in TypeScript.
</Info> */}

### ❌ Set

- Not yet supported. Use a `List` instead.

### ❌ Tuple

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

## Examples and Equivalents

Here are some examples and what their equivalents are in different languages.

### Example 1

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
int? | string[] | MyClass
````

```python Python Equivalent
Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
(number | null) | string[] | MyClass
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 2

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
string[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
List[str]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
string[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 3

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
(int | float)[]
```
```python Python Equivalent
List[Union[int, float]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
number[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 4

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
(int? | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
Optional[List[Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
((number | null) | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

## ⚠️ Unsupported
- `any/json` - Not supported. We don't want to encourage its use as it defeats the purpose of having a type system. if you really need it, for now use `string` and call `json.parse` yourself or use [dynamic types](../calling-baml/dynamic-types.mdx)
- `datetime` - Not yet supported. Use a `string` instead.
- `duration` - Not yet supported. We recommend using `string` and specifying that it must be an "ISO8601 duration" in the description, which you can parse yourself into a duration.
- `units (currency, temperature)` - Not yet supported. Use a number (`int` or `float`) and have the unit be part of the variable name. For example, `temperature_fahrenheit` and `cost_usd` (see [@alias](/docs/snippets/class#aliases-descriptions))

Commit message:

Fix some documentation typos (#966)
- Fixes several typos on docs.boundaryml.com
- Updates some docstrings that referred to outdated terminology
(`model`)
 - Added `fern` to nix dev env.

Co-authored-by: hellovai <vbv@boundaryml.com>

docs/docs/snippets/supported-types.mdx, after:

---
title: Supported Types
slug: docs/snippets/supported-types
---


Here's a list of all the types that can be represented in BAML:

## Primitive types
* `bool`
* `int`
* `float`
* `string`
* `null`

## Multimodal Types
See [calling a function with multimodal types](/docs/snippets/calling-baml/multi-modal)
and [testing image inputs](/docs/snippets/test-cases#images)

### `image`

You can use an image like this for models that support them:

```rust
function DescribeImage(myImg: image) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the image in four words:
    {{ myImg }}
  "#
}
```

You cannot name a variable `image` at the moment as it is a reserved keyword.

Calling a function with an image type:

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Image
from baml_client import b

async def test_image_input():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_url("https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png")
  )

  # Base64 image
  image_b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestImageInput(
    img=Image.from_base64("image/png", image_b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Image } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromUrl('https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/4/4d/Shrek_%28character%29.png'),
  )

  // Base64
  let res = await b.TestImageInput(
    Image.fromBase64('image/png', image_b64),
  )
```

</CodeBlocks>

### `audio`

Example
```rust
function DescribeSound(myAudio: audio) -> string {
  client GPT4Turbo
  prompt #"
    {{ _.role("user")}}
    Describe the audio in four words:
    {{ myAudio }}
  "#
}
```
Calling functions that have `audio` types.

<CodeBlocks>
```python Python
from baml_py import Audio
from baml_client import b

async def run():
  # from URL
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
      audio=Audio.from_url(
          "https://actions.google.com/sounds/v1/emergency/beeper_emergency_call.ogg"
      )
  )

  # Base64
  b64 = "iVBORw0K...."
  res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    audio=Audio.from_base64("audio/ogg", b64)
  )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { b } from '../baml_client'
import { Audio } from "@boundaryml/baml"
...

  // URL
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromUrl('https://actions.google.com/sounds/v1/emergency/beeper_emergency_call.ogg'),
  )

  // Base64
  const audio_base64 = ".."
  let res = await b.TestAudioInput(
    Audio.fromBase64('audio/ogg', audio_base64),
  )
  
```

</CodeBlocks>

## Composite/Structured Types

### enum

**See also:** [Enum](/docs/snippets/enum)

A user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants.
Use it when you need a model to choose from a known set of values, like in classification problems

```baml
enum Name {
  Value1
  Value2 @description("My optional description annotation")
}
```

### class

**See also:** [Class](/docs/snippets/class)

Classes are for user-defined complex data structures.

Use when you need an LLM to call another function (e.g. OpenAI's function calling), you can model the function's parameters as a class. You can also get models to return complex structured data by using a class.

**Example:**

Note that properties have no `:`
```baml
class Car {
  model string
  year int @description("Year of manufacture")
}
```

### Optional (?)

A type that represents a value that might or might not be present.

Useful when a variable might not have a value and you want to explicitly handle its absence.

**Syntax:** `Type?`

**Example:** `int?` or `(MyClass | int)?`

### Union (|)

A type that can hold one of several specified types.

This can be helpful with **function calling**, where you want to return different types of data depending on which function should be called.

**Syntax:** `Type1 | Type2`

**Example:** `int | string` or `(int | string) | MyClass` or `string | MyClass | int[]`

<Warning>
  Order is important. `int | string` is not the same as `string | int`.

  For example, if you have a `"1"` string, it will be parsed as an `int` if
  you use `int | string`, but as a `string` if you use `string | int`.
</Warning>

### List/Array ([])

A collection of elements of the same type.

**Syntax:** `Type[]`

**Example:** `string[]` or `(int | string)[]` or `int[][]`

<Tip>
  * Array types can be nested to create multi-dimensional arrays
  * An array type cannot be optional
</Tip>

### Map

A mapping of strings to elements of another type.

**Syntax**: `map<string, ValueType>`

**Example**: `map<string, string>`

{/* <Info>
  For TS users: `map<string, ValueType>` will generate a 
  `Record<string, ValueType>` type annotation, but using any other type for the
  key will generate a `Map`, e.g. `map<int, string>` in BAML will generate a
  `Map<number, string>` type annotation in TypeScript.
</Info> */}

### ❌ Set

- Not yet supported. Use a `List` instead.

### ❌ Tuple

- Not yet supported. Use a `class` instead.

## Examples and Equivalents

Here are some examples and what their equivalents are in different languages.

### Example 1

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
int? | string[] | MyClass
````

```python Python Equivalent
Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
(number | null) | string[] | MyClass
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 2

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
string[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
List[str]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
string[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 3

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
(int | float)[]
```
```python Python Equivalent
List[Union[int, float]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
number[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

### Example 4

<CodeBlocks>
```baml BAML
(int? | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

```python Python Equivalent
Optional[List[Union[Optional[int], List[str], MyClass]]]
```

```typescript TypeScript Equivalent
((number | null) | string[] | MyClass)[]
```

</CodeBlocks>

## ⚠️ Unsupported
- `any/json` - Not supported. We don't want to encourage its use as it defeats the purpose of having a type system. if you really need it, for now use `string` and call `json.parse` yourself or use [dynamic types](../calling-baml/dynamic-types.mdx)
- `datetime` - Not yet supported. Use a `string` instead.
- `duration` - Not yet supported. We recommend using `string` and specifying that it must be an "ISO8601 duration" in the description, which you can parse yourself into a duration.
- `units (currency, temperature)` - Not yet supported. Use a number (`int` or `float`) and have the unit be part of the variable name. For example, `temperature_fahrenheit` and `cost_usd` (see [@alias](/docs/snippets/class#aliases-descriptions))
