docs/v3/syntax/generator.mdx, before:

---
title: generator
---

The `generator` configuration needs to be added anywhere in .baml files to generate the `baml_client` in Python or Typescript.

We recommend running **baml init** to have this setup for you with sane defaults.

Here is how you can add a generator block:

```rust
generator MyGenerator{
  language "python"
  // This is where the generated baml-client will be written to
  project_root "../"
  test_command "poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```

| Property            | Description                                      | Options                           | Default                                        |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| language            | The language of the generated client             | python                            |                                                |
| pkg_manager         | The package manager of the generated client      | pip, pip3, poetry                 | automatically picks the best match (see below) |
| output              | The output directory of the generated code       | any relative path from `baml_src` | `../`                                          |
| python_setup_prefix | The prefix for setting up the python environment | string                            | empty unless poetry, then `poetry run`         |

## Example generators

### Python with poetry

```rust
generator MyGenerator{
  language "python"
  // This is where the generated baml-client will be written to
  project_root "../"
  test_command "poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```

### Python with venv

```rust
generator MyGenerator {
  language "python"
  project_root "../"
  test_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && python -m pytest"
  install_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && pip install -r requirements.txt"
  package_version_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && pip show baml"
}
```

### Using secret ops platforms

If you're using software like [Infisical](https://infisical.com/) or [Doppler](https://www.doppler.com/), do the following:

```rust
generator MyGenerator {
  language "python"
  project_root "../"
  // Add the prefix to the test command
  test_command "infisical run -- poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```

Commit message:

docs ups (#528)
- update links to examples
- some more deets

docs/v3/syntax/generator.mdx, after:

---
title: generator
---

The `generator` configuration needs to be added anywhere in .baml files to generate the `baml_client` in Python or Typescript.

We recommend running **baml init** to have this setup for you with sane defaults.

Here is how you can add a generator block:

```rust
generator MyGenerator{
  language "python"
  // This is where the generated baml-client will be written to
  project_root "../"
  test_command "poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```

| Property            | Description                                      | Options                           | Default                                        |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| language            | The language of the generated client             | python                            |                                                |
| project_root         | The directory where we'll output the generated baml_client     |                  | ../ |
| test_command              | What `baml test` uses to run your playground tests      |  |                                           |
| install_command | The command for setting up the environment with all dependencies. `baml update` calls this | string                            |         |
| package_version_command | The command to get the version of the baml package | string |

## Example generators

### Python with poetry

```rust
generator MyGenerator{
  language "python"
  // This is where the generated baml-client will be written to
  project_root "../"
  test_command "poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```

### Python with venv

```rust
generator MyGenerator {
  language "python"
  project_root "../"
  test_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && python -m pytest"
  install_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && pip install -r requirements.txt"
  package_version_command "source ./.venv/bin/activate && pip show baml"
}
```

### Using secret ops platforms

If you're using software like [Infisical](https://infisical.com/) or [Doppler](https://www.doppler.com/), do the following:

```rust
generator MyGenerator {
  language "python"
  project_root "../"
  // Add the prefix to the test command
  test_command "infisical run -- poetry run python -m pytest"
  install_command "poetry add baml@latest"
  package_version_command "poetry show baml"
}
```
