docs/v3/syntax/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: The BAML Project structure
---

A BAML project has the following structure:


```bash
.
├── baml_client/ # Generated code
├── baml_src/ # Prompts live here
│   ├── __tests__/ # Tests loaded by playground
│   │   ├── YourAIFunction/
│   │   │   ├── test_name_monkey.json
│   │   │   └── test_name_cricket.json
│   │   └── YourAIFunction2/
│   │       └── test_name_jellyfish.json
│   ├── main.baml
│   ├── any_directory/
│   │   ├── bar.baml
│   │   └── baz.baml
│   └── foo.baml
# The rest of your project (not generated nor used by BAML)
├── app/
│  ├── __init__.py
│  └── main.py
├── pyproject.toml
└── poetry.lock

```

1. **baml_src** is the directory where you write your BAML files with the AI function declarations, prompts, retry policies, etc. It also contains [generator](/v3/syntax/generator) blocks which configure how and where to transpile your BAML code.
2. **baml_client** is the directory where the generated python or TS client code lives. This is the code that you import into your python or TS program like this:

```python
from baml_client import baml as b

...
await b.YourAIFunction()
```

3. **baml_src/\_\_tests\_\_/** are where your unit tests live. The `.json` files store the test inputs that can be loaded, deleted, created, and ran using the BAML VSCode extension. You can also write programmatic python/TS tests anywhere you like. See [here](/v3/syntax/function-testing) for more information.

<Warning>
  **You should never edit any files inside baml_client directory** as the whole
  directory gets regenerated on every `baml build` (auto runs on save if using
  the VSCode extension).
</Warning>

<Tip>
  If you ever run into any issues with the generated code (like merge
  conflicts), you can always delete the `baml_client` directory and it will get
  regenerated automatically once you fix any other conflicts in your `.baml`
  files.
</Tip>

### imports

BAML by default has global imports. Every entity declared in any `.baml` file is available to all other `.baml` files under the same `baml_src` directory. You **can** have multiple `baml_src` directories, but no promises on how the VSCode extension will behave (yet).

Commit message:

docs: add typescript examples (#477)
also export `DeserializerException` in TS

docs/v3/syntax/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: BAML Project Structure
---

A BAML project has the following structure:

```bash
.
├── baml_client/ # Generated code
├── baml_src/ # Prompts live here
│   ├── __tests__/ # Tests loaded by playground
│   │   ├── YourAIFunction/
│   │   │   ├── test_name_monkey.json
│   │   │   └── test_name_cricket.json
│   │   └── YourAIFunction2/
│   │       └── test_name_jellyfish.json
│   ├── main.baml
│   ├── any_directory/
│   │   ├── bar.baml
│   │   └── baz.baml
│   └── foo.baml
# The rest of your project (not generated nor used by BAML)
├── app/
│  ├── __init__.py
│  └── main.py
├── pyproject.toml
└── poetry.lock

```

1. `baml_src/` is the directory where you write your BAML files with the AI
   function declarations, prompts, retry policies, etc. It also contains
   [generator](/v3/syntax/generator) blocks which configure how and where to
   transpile your BAML code.

2. `baml_client/` is the directory where BAML will generate code, and where you'll
   import the generated code from.

<CodeGroup>

```python
from baml_client import baml as b

await b.YourAIFunction()
```

```typescript
import b from "@/baml_client";

await b.YourAIFunction();
```

</CodeGroup>

3. `baml_src/__tests__/` are where your unit tests live. The `.json` files
   store the test inputs that can be loaded, deleted, created, and ran using
   the BAML VSCode extension. You can also write programmatic python/TS tests
   anywhere you like. See [here](/v3/syntax/function-testing) for more
   information.

<Warning>
  **You should never edit any files inside baml_client directory** as the whole
  directory gets regenerated on every `baml build` (auto runs on save if using
  the VSCode extension).
</Warning>

<Tip>
  If you ever run into any issues with the generated code (like merge
  conflicts), you can always delete the `baml_client` directory and it will get
  regenerated automatically once you fix any other conflicts in your `.baml`
  files.
</Tip>

### imports

BAML by default has global imports. Every entity declared in any `.baml` file
is available to all other `.baml` files under the same `baml_src` directory.
You **can** have multiple `baml_src` directories, but no promises on how the
VSCode extension will behave (yet).
